---
title: Debugging
order: 350
---

## When things go wrong

Building native applications is a complex task with many moving parts. There will be errors, crashes and lots of
head-scratching.

NativePHP works to hide much of the complexity, but sometimes you will need go under the hood to find out what's really
going on.

**Remember that NativePHP is a relatively thin layer above a whole ocean of dependencies and tools that are built and
maintained by many developers outside the NativePHP team.**

This means that while some issues can be solved within NativePHP it's also very likely that the problem lies elsewhere.

### The layers

- Your application, built on Laravel, using your local installations of PHP & Node.
- NativePHP's development tools (`native:serve` and `native:build`) manage the Electron build processes - this is
  what creates your Application Bundle.
- NativePHP moves the appropriate version of a statically-compiled binary of PHP into your application's bundle - when
  your app boots, it's _this_ version of PHP that is being used to execute your PHP code, not your system's version of
  PHP. 
- Electron uses a suite of platform-specific build tools and dependencies - Electron's ecosystem is mostly
  Javascript based. Much of this will be hidden away in your `vendor` directory.
- The operating system (OS) and its architecture (arch) - you can't build an application for one architecture and
  distribute it to a different OS/arch. It won't work. You must build your application to match the OS+arch combination
  where you want it to run.

While you are not expected to know in-depth how all of these layers work and fit together, some familiarity with what's
going on will help you find the root cause of issues and be able to raise meaningful tickets with the right people.

## Doing some digging

Here are some tips for debugging:

### Two or three copies
Remember that when a build is generated (dev or prod), your whole Laravel application is _copied into_ the build folder.

The dev build copy is stored in `vendor` (holy inception, Batman!).

Prod builds get packed in the `dist` folder.

This means there are at least 2 versions of your code that could be running depending on what you're doing: the hot code
that you edit in your IDE (your 'development environment') and the bundle code that actually gets executed when your app
runs in either a dev build or a prod build.

Having a clear understanding about what context you're in when issues occur will help you to solve the problem faster.

### Verbose output
Use `-v`, `-vv` or `-vvv` when running `native:serve` or `native:build` as this will provide more detail as to what's 
happening at each stage of a process.

### Check the logs
Logs generated by running builds of your application are stored in `{appdata}/storage/logs/`.

Logs generated when running Artisan commands in your development environment are in `storage/logs/` (default Laravel).

### Step out
Try running the step that's failing _outside_ of the runtime environment. Reduce the layers of abstraction to
identify or rule out environment-specific complications.

### Start from scratch

#### `dist`
Don't be afraid to delete builds and start again! The `dist` folder in your application's root may sometimes get into
an unusual state and just needs wiping out.

#### AppData
The appdata directory is where your application's database, logs, and other application-specific items are stored.
This is a reliable place to store data and files that your application needs to function _outside_ of the app
bundle and without cluttering your user's home directory or other personal folders.

When testing prod builds, the appdata directory will be created on your machine, allowing you to fully mimic an end-user
experience.

In some cases, you may need to wipe this folder and then re-run your app.

| Platform | Location                       |
|----------|--------------------------------|
| macOS    | ~/Library/Application Support  |
| Linux    | $XDG_CONFIG_HOME or ~/.config  |
| Windows  | %APPDATA%                      |

#### Database
Try [completely refreshing](/docs/digging-deeper/databases#refreshing-your-app-database) your app's prod database:

```shell
php artisan native:migrate:fresh
```

#### Processes
Make sure there are no lingering processes. Check your Activity Monitor/Task Manager to find stray processes from your
app that may hang around after a build has failed, and force them to quit.

### Check your app and PHP
Errors that occur in PHP execution during the application's boot-up sequence can cause the app to crash before it even
starts.

A 500 error in your application code, for example, may prevent the main window from showing, but would leave the runtime's
shell process running.

Try booting your application in a standard browser to see if there are any errors when hitting its entrypoint URL. If
you're using Laravel Herd, for example, move your app development environment into your Herd root folder and go to
`http://{your-app-folder-name}.test/` in your favorite browser. 

Also make sure that the PHP version in the bundle is the same as the one you have installed on your machine, i.e.
if you're running PHP8.2 on your machine, the PHP binary that is moved into the `dist` folder should be PHP8.2 for your
current OS+arch.

Checking this will also prove that the executable itself is stable:

#### For dev builds:
macOS & Linux:
```shell
/path/to/your/app/vendor/nativephp/electron/resources/js/resources/php/php -v
```
Windows:
```
C:\path\to\your\app\vendor\nativephp\electron\resources\js\resources\php\php.exe -v
```

#### For production builds:
macOS:
```shell
/path/to/your/app/dist/{os+arch}/AppName/Contents/Resources/app.asar.unpacked/resources/php/php -v
```

Windows:
```
C:\path\to\your\app\dist\win-unpacked\resources\app.asar.unpacked\resources\php\php.exe -v
```

## Still stuck?
If you've found a bug, please [open an issue](https://github.com/nativephp/laravel/issues/new) on GitHub.

There's also [Discussions](https://github.com/orgs/NativePHP/discussions) and
[Discord]({{ $discordLink }}) for live chat.

Come join us! We want you to succeed.
